Individual Commitment to Safety 
 
PA. 
Personal Accountability 
 
All individuals take personal responsibility for safety.  Responsibility and 
authority for nuclear safety are well defined and clearly understood.  Reporting 
relationships, positional authority, and team responsibilities emphasize the 
overriding importance of nuclear safety. 
 
Attributes: 
PA.1 Standards:  Individuals understand the importance of adherence to 
nuclear standards.  All levels of the organization exercise 
accountability for shortfalls in meeting standards. 
 
Behavior Examples: 
 
a. Individuals encourage each other to adhere to high standards. 
b. Individuals demonstrate a proper focus on nuclear safety and 
reinforce this focus through peer coaching and discussions. 
c. Individuals hold themselves personally accountable for modeling 
nuclear safety behaviors.  
d. Individuals across the organization apply nuclear safety standards 
consistently. 
e. Individuals actively solicit and are open to feedback. 
f. Individuals help supplemental personnel understand and practice 
expected behaviors and actions. 
 
PA.2 Job Ownership:  Individuals understand and demonstrate personal 
responsibility for the behaviors and work practices that support nuclear 
safety. 
Behavior Examples: 
 
a. Individuals understand their personal responsibility to foster a 
professional environment, encourage teamwork, and identify 
challenges to nuclear safety. 
b. Individuals understand their personal responsibility to raise nuclear 
safety issues, including those identified by others. 
c. Individuals take ownership for the preparation and execution of 
assigned work activities. 
9 

INPO 12-012, Revision 1 
d. Individuals actively participate in prejob briefings, understanding 
their responsibility to raise nuclear safety concerns before work 
begins. 
e. Individuals ensure that they are trained and qualified to perform 
assigned work. 
f. Individuals understand the objective of the work activity, their role 
in the activity, and their personal responsibility for safely 
accomplishing the overall objective. 
PA.3 Teamwork:  Individuals and work groups communicate and coordinate 
their activities within and across organizational boundaries to ensure 
nuclear safety is maintained. 
Behavior Examples: 
 
a. Individuals demonstrate a strong sense of collaboration and 
cooperation in connection with projects and operational activities. 
b. Individuals work as a team to provide peer-checks, verify 
certifications and training, ensure detailed safety practices, actively 
peer coach new personnel, and share tools and publications. 
c. Individuals strive to meet commitments. 